# What language to use?

## Context

Should be a new language to me for learning. 
Should be an appropriate one for native desktop apps (if it works cross platform that's a bonus!)
Should be one that improves future job options / pay ()

## Choices - pros cons

 - Python
   - Pros: would allow playing with ml/ai stuff, it's super popular, cross platform, loads of libs, mature, supports functional
   - Cons: performance, dynamically typed (con for learning as js is also dynamic)
 - Clojure
   - Pros: strong functional support, interop with java, probably more future focused?
   - Cons: smaller community, 
 - Golang
   - Pros: speed, future in devops, statically typed, built in testing & docs
   - Cons: still young, no vm?, no native gui, fractured deps (maybe not a bad thing), not a huge number of libs yet
 - Kotlin:
   - Pros: perfect interop with Java, good for andriod, corporate backing? statically typed, supports functional, compiles to js?
   - Cons: smaller community
 - Scala
   - Pros: Functional, big data, big data companies betting on it
   - Cons: still young, smaller community, 
 - Elm
   - Pros: Very strong Functional support
   - Cons: It's a front end language?

## Decision

Python. The size of the community (it's _crazy_ popular! That pretty much wins it alone), it works with GIS (Chrissy), ml/ai potential. May not be as (possibly) future focused with the whole function thing, but that'll likely be decades away and it's still doable with JS and python (I think).