# 6. Open Source License And IP

## Status

Accepted, 2019-08-09

## Context

PCMT is intended to be an open and free software product that's aligned with
the [Open Source Definition][osd] and the 
[Principles for Digital Development][pdd].  To this end PCMT needs to release 
the software and documentation under appropriate software licenses.

While PCMT has it's pick of open-source licenses, our starting point of Akeneo
comes with the OSL v3 license, a copy-left license.

## Decision

- We will abide by the Akeneo PIM Community Edition's [OSL v3][osl3] software 
  license. We will include the License and Copyright notice from Akeneo in the 
  root of every source repository which distributes Akeneo PIM CE.
- We will license PCMT software (that which isn't a contribution to Akeneo)
  under the [Non-Profit OSL v3][nposl3].  We will include a copy of this license 
  in the root of every source repository created.  We will mark every file 
  created with this license notice.
- We will license all PCMT documentation and non-software materials under
  [CC BY-SA 4.0][cc-by-sa]. We will include this mark with all documentation 
  and materials.
- We will copyright all software and documentation, that's not a contribution to 
  Akeneo, to [VillageReach][villagereach].  We will include this notice in every 
  file created.
- We will require that all contributions to PCMT be licensed under the
  aforementioned licenses and copyright assigned to VillageReach.  We will
  note this in a contribution guide available at the root of the PCMT project.

## Consequences

We will ensure that the PCMT project is compliant with all IP rights and
licenses granted from Akeneo PIM CE.

PCMT will use nearly the same, copy-left, license that Akeneo PIM CE uses.
This license is an OSD-compliant license which will ensure that PCMT remains 
free and open for use or modification by all project stakeholders.

PCMT will generate all of it's documentation under a Creative Common's license
that also requires that derivative works are shared.  The Share Alike license is 
very similar to the copy-left OSL v3 in that use and modifications must be 
declared and shared.

PCMT will include the appropriate copyright and license notices in all works,
to ensure that all stakeholders understand who the licensor is and what license 
is granted to the licensee for use.

PCMT will require all copyright to be assigned to the stewardship of 
VillageReach, which is primarily responsible to the project sponsors for
ensuring that PCMT is compliant with the Principals for Digital Development
and the delivery of a free and open project.

[osd]: https://opensource.org/osd
[pdd]: https://digitalprinciples.org/
[osl3]: https://opensource.org/licenses/OSL-3.0
[nposl3]: https://opensource.org/licenses/NPOSL-3.0
[cc-by-sa]: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/
[villagereach]: https://villagereach.org

---
Copyright (c) 2019, VillageReach.  Licensed CC BY-SA 4.0:  https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/
